                             The Dream Giver
                                   by
                               Jon Kreuzer
-------------------------------Beginning---------------------------

Goal-
        The goal of Dream Giver is to use your mind to find objects and solve 
puzzles to continue in the game. There is also the long-term
plot oriented goal to find out more about the plague, how to stop it, and
how to escape the run-down city.

How to run the game-
        Type dream in your Dream Giver directory. It will load the
Kreuzer Industries Logo, then the intro, then the game. Hit esc to skip
from the logo to the game, and hitting s will skip the intro and take
you straight to the game.

Requirements- 
        A IBM compatible computer, with a 256-color VGA graphics card. You 
need at least 1.9 Megabytes of hard disk space to hold the entire game.
For the best results possible run on a 386 25mhz or faster. Slower
computers will still run the game well, but your may experience very slight
sluggishness in some areas of the gameplay.

        To install the game insert your Dream Giver disk in the a: drive
and type install. It will install the full game to drive c: in the directory
Dreamg.

-------------------------------Interface--------------------------

Movement- You can move the cursor (The little arrow) either with a joystick
or the cursor keys on the keyboard.

            Cursor keys                    Joystick
  up/left-7     8-up   9-up/right    (Same as cursor keys. What ever
     left-4            6-right        direction the stick is pushed, the
down/left-1     2-down 3-down/right   cursor will move.)

   5(middle) key- Hitting this key will toggle quick cursor on and off.
With quick cursor on, the cursor will move three times as fast. This is useful
for zipping to the icons and back, or zipping to the compass.
   The (B) button will toggle quick cursor on and off if you are using a
   joystick.
                      
Selecting-
        The selection key- Keyboard <Enter> Joystick <A> button
 When you move your cursor into a screen area, Hit the selection key to
 activate that area. In these instructions hitting the selection key will
 sometimes be referred to as clicking.
        
Extra keys-
        1. <s> Hitting the s key will toggle the sound effects on and off.
            It's probably easier to leave the sound on, so unless you want
            to be silent, you should not have to worry about this feature.

        2. <space bar> The space bar will cycle through the icons from top
            to bottom.

        3. <j> This key will toggle the joystick on and off. If you do not
           have a joystick, or want to use the keyboard, it may improve
           performance to leave the joystick off.

        4. <m> This key will turn the mouse on and off. Due to the fact
           that this game does not support a mouse, you will have to HOLD
           DOWN BOTH BUTTONS to move it, stop holding down a button to 
           click.

----------------------------Areas and Functions------------------------
            The areas are-
                      
        €ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ€ﬂ€ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ€ 
        €     1      €2€  3    €  1-View screen 
        €            € €       €  2-Icons
        €‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹€‹€‹‹‹‹‹‹‹€  3-Active text    
        €      4     €         €  4-Inventory boxes
        €ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ€    5    €  5-Compass
        €      6     €         €  6-General description
        ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ

View screen-
        In this box the picture of your current location is displayed. This
is where all the action will take place. It is where you interact with your
environment.
        Clicking on this area will display a message. The message displayed
will depend on which icon you have selected, and exactly what object in the
picture your arrow is on.

General Description- 
        In this area a general description of the scene shown
in the view screen is displayed. It will change whenever you move to a new
scene. Clicking on it will do nothing.

Active Text- 
        Whenever you tap the selection key, if the arrow is on an area that
action is possible, this box will display the results. Clicking on this
box will do nothing.
        ex. You click the eye icon on a lamp in the view screen. `A gold lamp 
hangs from the back wall of the room.' is displayed in the active text box.

Icons-
        1. The EYE icon. If whatever the cursor is on is important, this
           icon will give a description of it.
        2. The GET icon. If the item the cursor is on will help you in your
           quest, this icon will obtain it for you.
        3. The OPEN icon. This icon will open closed doors, cases, or
           anything else that can open or close.
        4. The PUSH icon. This icon is a general action icon. It will push/
           pull/reach/operate, etc.
        5. The USE icon. It will, if possible, use the item selected at the
           arrow's location on the screen.
Clicking on an icon will change it to the active (current) icon.

Note: The icon you have currently selected will be displayed in the bottom
left inventory box.

Inventory Boxes-
        Whenever you get an item and decide to keep it, a picture of
that item will appear in an empty inventory box. There are eleven boxes 
displayed at a time, plus one which contains the Saving Stick. If you click
on the red bar at the left of the boxes , four more boxes will swap with the 
four currently displayed at the top left.
        Note: If you try to obtain an object, and you have all eleven active
 inventory boxes filled up, a message will be displayed in the active text
 telling you that you can't carry any more.

Clicking on a specific inventory box will make the item inside the box become
 the selected item. You can always tell the current selected item because it  
 will be in the box highlighted in red. If you have the look icon selected
 a description of the object clicked on will be displayed.
        Note: Unless the eye icon is the current icon, the icon will switch
        to use.

Compass-
        When you're playing Dream Giver, you will find it vital to be able
 to move your character from one screen to another. The only way you can do
 this is to use the compass. The compass contains the standard eight 
 directions, NW, N, NE, W, E, SW, S, SE. The view picture is always facing
 north. The directions that are currently available to go are highlighted,
 i.e. lighter than the other ones. If you click on any of these directions 
 your character will walk that way on the compass. A new view screen will 
 appear in place of the old one.
        Note: Some things that you do, finding a secret passage, unlocking a 
        door, or finding an unlocked or open door, will highlight a new
        direction of travel.

-----------------------------Saving stick-------------------------------
What can the saving stick do?-
        1. View percentage of the game complete.
        2. Save your game.
        3. Load a previously saved game
        4. Restart a new game
        5. Quit to dos
        6. Return to game.

Using the saving stick-
        Select the inventory box with the stick icon inside. (It will be on
        the top row, far right.) If the icon is not already on USE, select
        the USE icon. Move over to your character on the compass hit
        <enter>. This will bring up the Saving stick menu.

Percentage complete-
        At the top of the menu will be a percentage. This is what percentage
of the game you have completed. The higher the further you are to the end of
the game. Note: It is not necessary to do everything possible for points, but
some things you have to do to finish the game. There are also two items you
must possess at the end of the game in order to view the full ending sequence.

Saving-
Hit <s>. It will then ask you which number you want to save your game under.
Hit either 1, 2, 3, or 4. If there is already a game saved under the number
the new game will be saved over the old and the old game will be lost.
Note- Although Dream Giver is specially designed making it hard to
maneuver yourself into a dead end, it is not impossible, so multiple saved
games are suggested.

        During the course of the game you will find two reasons to save the
game.
        1- The Dream Giver is a long game. It is extremely unlikely that you
will beat it in one sitting. You can save your game, then continue where you
left off later.
        2- You are in a new and potentially hostile environment. It
is possible to be killed, therefore it is wise to save the game in new or
dangerous situations. That way you will not have to do everything over again.

Loading-
Hit <l>. You will then be asked what number game to load. If you that
number has a game saved in it, you will be back in the exact position with
the exact same items as when the game was saved.
      
Restarting-
Hit <r>. The game will then restart from the first scene (the subway station)
with no items, and nothing done. In short, it is the same as loading a saved
game saved at the very start of the game.

Quitting-
Hit <q>. When you are done playing the game for now, hitting q will return
you to DOS. It will not save your game however, so if you want to start
where you left of you should save it before quitting.

Return to game-
Tap <x>. This will exit the saving stick, and go back to the normal point and
click interface.

--------------------------Extra facts or hints------------------------------

When you want to open, use an item on, or anything in general with a door, it
will often be best to click on the knob. 
        Try clicking on the inventory switch to see if you have some items 
hiding that you forgot about.

Be observant. Read all the way through what it says when you look at an 
object. If you are not sure quite how to do something, try a few different
cursors, or click in a few different places on the object. You might want to
note puzzles you have not solved, so if you later find an important item you 
can go back to them.  Most items, when you have used up all their uses, will 
disappear, so if you still have an object, chances are it has another use. 
If you see or find anything that looks or sounds important, it might be wise 
to make a record of it. That way you won't forget it later.

WARNING: Do not read this unless you want specific hints
Type HINT at the dos prompt in the dreamgiver directory
You will be asked to enter your saved game. Enter the number of your most
recent saved game and a hint telling you what to do next will be displayed.
Sometimes after you do that one thing you'll be stuck again, but sometimes
you can enter a whole new world of adventure.
        NOTE: I realize it is very time consuming and frustrating to get a
        hint, especially one that will help considerably. This is purposeful
        so you do not just keep hitting hint, and win the whole game without
        using god's gift to you, your puny brain.
